docs: Database access MCP (#54409)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/connect-your-client/mcp.mdx

---
title: Using Model Context Protocol (MCP)
description: How to configure MCP clients to use Teleport MCP servers.
---

> Introduced in late 2024 by Anthropic, [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction)
> is a widely adopted, open-source standard that enables language models to

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
[Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction)
is an open-source standard that enables large language models (LLMs) to
```

  [guides](../enroll-resources/database-access/guides/guides.mdx) for how to set
  up the Teleport Database Service for your database.

- Access to the configured databases. You can use `tsh db ls` to check which
  database your user has access to and the connect options available:
  
  ```code
  $ tsh db ls
  # Name            Description          Allowed Users Labels 
  # --------------- -------------------- ------------- -------
  # postgres-dev    Development database [* postgres]  env=dev
  # postgres-prod   Production database  [readonly]    env=prod
  # mysql-dev       Development database [*]           env=dev
  ```

### Step 1/2. Installation

`tsh mcp db` command directly starts a MCP server using the
[Standard Input/Output (stdio)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/concepts/transports#standard-input%2Foutput-stdio).

Similarly to `tsh db connect`, the database access MCP server command requires
you to pick the database user and name the MCP connections will use. In
addition, you can also filter which database will be available as an MCP
resource, either using `--query` or `--labels` flags.

> As for the current version, **you can only specify a single value for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, **you can only specify a single value for
```

`--db-user` and `--db-name`**. All selected databases must have a database and
a database user. Otherwise, the queries will fail. 

<Admonition type="note" title="Permissions">
  Given that language models can perform any query on your database, we
  recommend that you select a database user with only the permissions you want
  to allow the language models to perform. Creating a user with read-only

>   permissions will prevent accidental changes to your database.

Author: A read-only transaction is not the solution here (as we and pgx are not doing proper input validation). The models (and users) can bypass it. So we're instead enforcing the user's selection (by CLI flags) and adding this tip/warning.

>   permissions will prevent accidental changes to your database.

Reviewer 2: What is the bypass?

#### VS Code

You can either add the Teleport MCP server to
[your workspace](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers#_add-an-mcp-server-to-your-workspace)
or to the [user settings](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers#_add-an-mcp-server-to-your-user-settings).

```json
{
  "mcp": {
    "servers": {
      "teleport-databases": {
        "command": "tsh",
        "args": [
          "mcp",
          "db",
          "--db-user=readonly",
          "--db-name=postgres",
          "--labels=\"env=dev\""
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Claude Desktop

Open the Claude Desktop configuration file.
- macOS: `~/Library/Application Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`
- Windows: `%APPDATA%\Claude\claude_desktop_config.json`

And update the contents with the Teleport MCP server configuration.

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "teleport-detabases": {
      "command": "tsh",
      "args": [
        "mcp",
        "db",
        "--db-user=readonly",
        "--db-name=postgres",
        "--labels=\"env=dev\""
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

After updating the configuration, you must restart the Claude Desktop app before
using the newly added MCPs.

> ### Step 2/2. Usage

Reviewer 2: I think adding real-life usage example would be super helpful.

After updating your MCP client configuration, you can use the Teleport
databases. Each database protocol will have its own tool to execute queries.
Given that you might have multiple databases from the same protocol, the tool

> call must specify which Teleport database it will perform the query against.

Author: I wanted to clarify the usage here. If you have multiple databases of the same protocol (say PostgreSQL), you must somehow indicate to the MCP client which one to use (either by text or by attaching the resource). Otherwise, it will just pick a random one.

> call must specify which Teleport database it will perform the query against.

Reviewer 2: Ah, got it. Perhaps changing the sentence order for clarity?

> The tool call must specify which Teleport database to query, since you might have multiple databases using the same protocol.

The Teleport database resources can be retrieved automatically by the clients
(using the available tool) and are also available as MCP resources. Depending
on which client you're using, you can set the target database beforehand. For
example, on Claude Desktop, you can attach the resource to the conversation and

> ask the model to perform the queries on the attached database.

Reviewer 2: Ah, so we support both tools and resources? How would that work?

Author: You could still attach the resource to the conversation, and the models will use it. If you don't attach or want to let the model search/select the appropriate database instance to execute the query, it can list them and have their information available.

Reviewer 2: Sounds great. What would you say about adding examples of both usage patterns?

### Troubleshooting

> TODO

Reviewer 2: Scenarios/tasks to consider:
1. Expired session
2. Invalid database user, database name
3. Some other error cases?
4. How do you get the logs?
